They got a lot more out of it. The big finding was
that people experienced longer-lasting improvements in mood from the
kindness and gratitude activities than from those in which they indulged
themselves. Even though peopl e wer e most nervous about doing th e kindness and gratitude activities, which required them to violate socia l norm s
a nd risk embarrassment, onc e they actually did the activities they felt better for the rest of the day. Man y students even said their good feeling s continued on into the next day—which nobod y said about eating ic e cream .
Furthermore , thes e benefits wer e most pronounce d for thos e whos e
strengths included kindness and gratitude.
So V (voluntary activity) is real, and it's not just about detachment. You
c an increas e your happiness if you us e your strengths, particularly in the
servic e of strengthening connections—helpin g friends, expressing gratitude to benefactors. Performing a random act of kindness every day could
get tedious, but if you know your strengths and draw up a list of five activities that engag e them, you can surely ad d at least one gratification to every
day. Studie s that have assigned peopl e to perfor m a random ac t of kindness
every week, or to count their blessing s regularly for severa l weeks, find
small but sustained increase s in happiness. 5 4
 So take the initiative! Choos e
your own gratifying activities, do them regularly (but not to the point of tedium), and raise your overall level of happiness.

a person who gets angry when cheated , and who will pursue
vengeanc e regardless of the cost, earns a reputation that discourage s would- be cheaters. A person who pursued vengeance only when the benefits outweighed the costs could be cheated with impunity in many situations

But Schwartz and his colleagues find that the paradox mostly applies to people they call "maximizers"—those
who habitually try to evaluate all the options, seek out more information, and
make the best choice (or "maximize their utility," as economists would say).
Other people—"satisficers"—are more laid back about choice. They evaluate
an array of options until they find one that is good enough, and then they
stop looking. Satisficers are not hurt by a surfeit of options. Maximizers end
up making slightly better decisions than satisficers, on average (all that worry
and information-gathering does help), but they are less happy with their decisions, and they are more inclined to depression and anxiety.

The point here is that maximizers engage in more social comparison, and are therefore more easily drawn into conspicuous consumption.
Paradoxically, maximizers get less pleasure per dollar they spend.
Modern life is full of traps. Som e of these traps are set by marketers and
advertisers who know just what the elephant wants—an d it isn't happiness.

Yes,they suffered privations that seem to us in the West unbearable, but they
also had close friends with whom they spent much of their time, and most
of them stayed in touch with their families.

The life of cerebral reflection and emotional indifferenc e (apatheia) advocated by many Gree k and Roman philosophers and that of calm
nonstriving advocated by Buddha are lives designed to avoid passion, and a
life without passion is not a human life. "Ves, attachments bring pain, but they
also bring our greatest joys, and there is value in the very variation that the
philosophers are trying to avoid. I wa s stunned to hea r a philosopher reject so
much of ancient philosophy, but I wa s also inspired in a way that I had never
been as an undergraduate student of philosophy. I walked out of the lecture
hall feeling that I wanted to do something then and there to embrac e life.

Solomon's messag e was unorthodox in philosophy, but it is commo n in the
work of romantic poets, novelists, and natur e writers: "We do not live but a
quarter part of our life—why do we not let on the flood—rais e the gates— &
set our wheels in motion—H e that hath ears to hea r let him hear. Emplo y
your senses.
