There's no such thing as willpower or self discipline - rather, no one really has more than anyone else. The only trick is that people with high willpower/self discipline have figured out strategies to avoid situations where temptation is involved.

If you don't go to that party where that hot blonde from marketing who likes you will be, and don't get drunk with her, you won't cheat on your wife. Much simpler than trying to keep your hands off her when you're drunk and she's undressing you with her eyes.   -- lever law applies here

Self discipline is the same thing: think of consequences you want to avoid.  Plan ahead to make it easy to avoid them/do what you need to do. Then stick to your plan. The rest is just practice, and being honest with yourself.

I'll more than double down on your request for 5 ways to improve your self-discipline. Use some or all, they will all be useful in your search.

By learning self-discipline you gain self-control, and like anything you want to learn in life, that takes practice, effort, and time.

First, understand how or why you are undisciplined? Is it that you think too much and never take action? Do you start something and lose interest quickly? Maybe you are scattered and think too much about everything and can’t decide on the right action to take? Regardless of the reason, here are a number of exercises you can do to improve your lack of self-discipline.

1. Start small: Since you lack self-discipline and wish to generate it, like any learning process, start small by taking incremental actions in the direction of your ultimate goal. Make sure these “actions” are easily and quickly attainable.

2. One step: Try selecting just one thing to do at a time. This will help keep your focus and sense of accomplishment when finished. Immediately upon completion select a new goal to accomplish, do not allow complacency to set in.

3. Listen to yourself: One thing to be cautious of when endeavoring to change your undisciplined nature, is to consider whom you are surrounding yourself with? Are these people negative and also undisciplined?

4. Weak moments: One of the trickiest parts of learning self-discipline is handling your mental lapses and weak moments. Be cognizant of these mental lapses and work through them.

5. Fit your lifestyle: To improve self-discipline, you must make whatever you've decided to do fit your lifestyle. No matter what you do, a round peg will not fit into a square hole.

6. Stop talking: Very often when we make up our mind to do something, we start telling unaffected people what we intend to do. Try not to do this and just get on with the action at hand. These people will see soon enough what you are doing.

7. Milestones: Set goals and milestones. It can be hours, days, weeks or even months. Write your goals and milestones down, if even noting how you feel each day. Make an entry every day regardless how inconsequential you think it might be.

8. Everyone slips: The biggest threat of losing the self-discipline battle is slipping and then sinking straight into defeat. This is very common with dieting and eating that first cookie or missing that workout routine. You are human and lapses occasionally happen don’t punish yourself for it.

9. Reward yourself: As with almost everything in life, when you reward yourself, you will find that your sub-conscience will start to be your ally rather than a subversive adversary.

10. Write: Make a commitment to start journaling and reading your daily entries every day. This in itself can lead to self-discipline since this commitment is exactly that, self-discipline.

11. Just do it: How much do you really want to achieve your goals? Are you truly serious about it? You might think you’re serious, but it’s your actions that will convey how sincere you are. Focus on the long-term goal and self-discipline will naturally follow. Every morning, get up bright and early and tell yourself: today will not be over until I’ve done what I promised myself I’ll do.

12. Physical, emotional and spiritual: If you take truly take good care of your physical, emotional and (if needed) spiritual needs you will feel significantly better about yourself. Taking care of you, is one of the best ways to guarantee your new self-discipline.

13. Desired outcomes: The clearer and more specific you are about the what you want to achieve, whether it’s losing a few pounds, saving a few bucks or getting that interview for your dream job, the more likely you are to do whatever it takes to achieve your goal. Make sure you are very clear in what your goal(s) are. Write your goals down and read them as often as required.

14. Build routines: Force yourself to do whatever it is that you have made up your mind to do. By absolute force of thought, you will build a routine. Once you see those first few pounds come off, your savings begin to grow or finally get that job interview; your routines will become easier and start to become lifelong habits.

15. Don’t wait: Don’t do something based on whether it “feels right,” this is not an option. If you wait to feel right before exercising, putting that piece of cake in your mouth or making that important phone call, you will never be self-disciplined. Don’t wait, do it now!

16. Dump the excuses: Let’s be honest. Do the following excuses sound familiar? “I’ll start tomorrow,” “I’ll begin when the weather is right,” or "it's too late now,” remember,today will not be over until I’ve done what I promised myself I’ll do.

Keep in mind you are going to make excuses, don’t fall for them. Don’t believe your own bullshit. Honesty can be hard to swallow. In fact, harder than actually doing what you're trying to avoid. Stop mistaking excuses for yourself once and for all.

17. Non-negotiable: When you begin questioning whether you will actually get down to work, whether it's too late, whether we should watch that movie instead, we start to lose motivation. Make your development of self-discipline non-negotiable. Make whatever you’re trying to do as simple as opening your eyes in the morning. This is not negotiable (hopefully), so tell yourself: "I'm not going to listen to my excuses, this is non-negotiable!"

18. Don't get hijacked by trivia: We all have the desire of completion. It maybe a book we are reading or an electronic game we are playing. But if you have more important things to do, things to learn, an important project, then these trivial things can 'hijack' your need for completion.

Endless computer games or watching television might leave you feeling satisfied thatsomething has been completed. It’s like eating junk food instead of nutritional food. You may have satisfied your hunger, but the accomplishment is useless. You must begin to feel that things remain unfinished like you are hungry, to keep focused on what is truly required to create self-discipline.

19. External deadline: Working to deliver what others expect from you, can enormously increase your self-discipline. If you don’t have any external deadlines, make some.

If you need to complete a project, tell the person you owe the work too, that on a specific date you are going to produce the completed work. Write out a signed and dated agreement, and ask him or her to sign and date it again when you have completed the task. External deadlines really do work.

20. Ignore the cynics: People can exert an enormous negative effect on us if we allow it. Don't let their words discourage you. Seek the advice from experts, but never allow negative people who haven't achieved themselves', to sway you from your goals.

If people say that your goal is not possible, use their negativism to inspire and energize you. Proving others to be wrong can be a great motivator.

Self-discipline is the fuel that gets you places. The happy by-products of discipline are, self-control, success, self-respect, and improved physical and mental health.
